---
title: "Introduction"
description:
type: Overview
date: 2018-11-26T16:41:44+05:30
pre: "a. "
weight: 3
---
The following lists the elements of a cloud robotics application:

* **Robot Hardware** consists of actuators, sensors, computation and middleware.
* **Cloud Computing Infrastructure** allows the robots to offload computation, store
  and share information, and collaborate with other robots.
* **IoT Sensors** augment the onboard sensors to give the application and robots a
  better understanding of the surrounding environment.
* **Enabling Algorithms** such as motion planning, machine vision, and sensor fusion
  algorithms that enhance the autonomy of the system.
* **Field Services** region wide network of service professionals to install and
  operate robot hardware.
* **Business Logic** precise knowledge on the current business processes and the
  end user pain points.

The above elements are put together using the infrastructure that:

1. builds, deploys and provisions code on the cloud computing infrastructure
   and heterogenous devices.
2. select and manage the robot/device (software configuration, health management)
3. select Infrastructure-as-a-Service (AWS, GCP), private cloud (OpenStack) or
   bare metal and manage it.
4. Transport data between robots, IoT devices, and the cloud computing infrastructure.
5. Scalable logging and metrics infrastructure for long term operation.
6. Share and consume third party services.
7. Robot domain specific storage for sharing knowledge and learning concepts
   between robots/devices.

rapyuta.io provides a set of tools and services for the above elements to
interact with each other for building robotic applications.

The main components are device management, unified ROS environment and messaging,
build engine, service catalog and logging services.

## Device Management
The device management service provides the control plane and a minimal data
plane communication between the device and the platform.

### Key features
* Deploy and run software components on a device, and manage the components'
  lifecycles.
* Browser based SSH access with full featured TTY to the device, even behind
  a firewall without a VPN.

## Unified ROS Environment and Messaging
ROS developers can connect and unify remote ROS environments with a dedicated
messaging layer built for ROS that provides a low latency high throughput
data plane over the public internet.

### Key features
* prioritise specific data streams
* Encryption
* Handle transient network failure
* ROS message transparent with fully ROS debug tool compatibility
* Optional wire compression typically useful for sparse data like maps/point
  clouds.

## Build Engine
The build engine converts your application source into runnable rapyuta.io
package artifacts and configurations.

### Key features
* Predefined recipes for converting popular application types (including ROS)
  into Docker images.
* Share and distribute application recipes for new application types via the
  Catalog.
* Automatic security updates for your application through predefined recipes
  available on rapyuta.io

## Service Catalog
The service catalog is a curated collection of public and private packages
designed by experts. The catalog facilitates the design, implementation, and
provisioning stages of complex robotic applications by providing service
discovery, application composition and dynamic provisioning.

### Key features
* Support for adding ROS packages and non-ROS packages
* Search for predefined compatible services and devices to build solutions with.
* Dependency management between the various rapyuta.io packages and services.

## Logging and Metric Services
rapyuta.io provides a secure, scalable streaming pipeline to collect and
visualise data common to cloud robotics applications, e.g., CPU usage,
memory footprint, device status, etc. The platform also provides a configurable
mechanism to collect and introspect data generated by the application via
ROS topics.

### Key features
* Full-text search and filtering on log data
* Rich support for time series metrics with adjustable grouping intervals,
  aggregation (min, max, count, etc.)
* Configurable dashboards for graphs and logs per device or deployment with
  auto refresh and visual correlation among all sub-plots
* Multiple visualisation types (Line graph, bar graph, stacked, single value, etc.)
